Oh, not again, dear. What’s the good of stopping every two miles and saying you won’t go another step? We must get on to the next village before night. There are wild beasts in this wood: lions, they say.
Well, dear, do you want to see one?
We all have to think of ourselves occasionally, dear.
He can’t always help it, dear. You make me think of you a good deal. Not that I blame you.
No, dear: that is my fault.
I don’t complain, my love.
I am, my dear.
In what, darling?
Yes, my dear: I know you do.
What can I do, my dear?
I’m not an atheist, dear: I am a Christian.
Just like us, dear.
I confess I was addicted to it, dear. But I gave it up when I became a Christian.
Only when they were hungry and you were getting too stout, dearie.
They never answered back, darling.
No, dearie: don’t take on like that. We can’t go back. We’ve sold everything: we should starve; and I should be sent to Rome and thrown to the lions—
No, dear—
What is it, my precious, my pet? What’s the matter?
Did you see? A lion.
Meggy: there’s one chance for you. It’ll take him pretty nigh twenty minutes to eat me and you can escape in less time than that.
Don’t you come near my wife, do you hear? Meggy: run. Run for your life. If I take my eye off him, its all up. Oh, he’s lame, poor old chap! He’s got a thorn in his paw. A frightfully big thorn. Oh, poor old man! Did um get an awful thorn into um’s tootsums wootsums? Has it made um too sick to eat a nice little Christian man for um’s breakfast? Oh, a nice little Christian man will get um’s thorn out for um; and then um shall eat the nice Christian man and the nice Christian man’s nice big tender wifey pifey. Yes, yes, yes, yes, yes. Now, now um is not to bite and not to scratch, not even if it hurts a very, very little. Now make velvet paws. That’s right. Steadeee! Oh, did the nasty cruel little Christian man hurt the sore paw? Well, one more little pull and it will be all over. Just one little, little, leetle pull; and then um will live happily ever after. Oh, mustn’t frighten um’s good kind doctor, um’s affectionate nursey. That didn’t hurt at all: not a bit. Just one more. Just to show how the brave big lion can bear pain, not like the little crybaby Christian man. Oopsh! That’s it! . Now it’s out. Now lick um’s paw to take away the nasty inflammation. See? Clever little liony-piony! Understands um’s dear old friend Andy Wandy. Yes, kissums Andy Wandy. Velvet paws! Velvet paws! That’s right.
Easy, Ferrovius, easy: you broke the last man’s jaw.
Don’t slap me on the back, brother. She knows you mean me.
Well, you see, sister, he’s never quite sure of himself. Suppose at the last moment in the arena, with the gladiators there to fight him, one of them was to say anything to annoy him, he might forget himself and lay that gladiator out.
Oh, sister!
Well, let us hope so, brother, for your sake. You’ve had a gay time, haven’t you? with your raids on the temples. I can’t help thinking that heaven will be very dull for a man of your temperament. Don’t be angry: I say it only to console you in case you should die in your bed tonight in the natural way. There’s a lot of plague about.
Oh, don’t take on so, brother. We’re all sinners.
Dear brother: if you wouldn’t mind—just for my sake—
Don’t call him by the names of the animals. We’ve no right to. I’ve had such friends in dogs. A pet snake is the best of company. I was nursed on goat’s milk. Is it fair to them to call the like of him a dog or a snake or a goat?
Oh, believe me, they have. Just the same as you and me. I really don’t think I could consent to go to heaven if I thought there were to be no animals there. Think of what they suffer here.
I shall be the mince pie.
But don’t they ever just only pretend to kill one another? Why shouldn’t you pretend to die, and get dragged out as if you were dead; and then get up and go home, like an actor?
I’m glad he’s hungry. Not that I want him to suffer, poor chap! but then he’ll enjoy eating me so much more. There’s a cheerful side to everything.
No: thank you very much indeed; but I really mustn’t.
I’d rather not. I couldn’t sacrifice to Diana: she’s a huntress, you know, and kills things.
No: it’s very kind of you; but I feel I can’t save myself that way.
Oh, please don’t say that. That is dreadful. You mean so kindly by me that it seems quite horrible to disoblige you. If you could arrange for me to sacrifice when there’s nobody looking, I shouldn’t mind. But I must go into the arena with the rest. My honor, you know.
Well, perhaps honor is too strong an expression. Still, you know, I couldn’t allow the tailors to get a bad name through me.
Brother: I can’t do that, not even to oblige you. Don’t ask me.
Couldn’t you have saved him brother?
Perhaps the lion won’t eat me now.
Me, your Worship.
I can cure warts by rubbing them with my tailor’s chalk; and I can live with my wife without beating her.
You don’t know her, Caesar, or you wouldn’t say that.
Farewell, brother, till we meet in the sweet by-and-by.
No, really: I can’t fight: I never could. I can’t bring myself to dislike anyone enough. I’m to be thrown to the lions with the lady.
Just keep thinking how cruelly you might hurt the poor gladiators.
Throw away the sword, brother.
But if you are going to give up our faith, brother, why not do it without hurting anybody? Don’t fight them. Burn the incense.
Brother, brother: let them rage and kill: let us be brave and suffer. You must go as a lamb to the slaughter.
I’m glad I haven’t to fight. That would really be an awful martyrdom. I am lucky.
Don’t think of me, sister. Think of yourself. That will keep your heart up.
It’s dreadful. Now I want to fight. I can’t bear the sight of a whip. The only time I ever hit a man was when he lashed an old horse with a whip. It was terrible: I danced on his face when he was on the ground. He mustn’t strike Ferrovius: I’ll go into the arena and kill him first.
(runs in)
Oh, don’t ask me, don’t ask me. Something too dreadful. Oh!
THE CALL BOY. Ropes and hooks there! Ropes and hooks.
Well, it was to be, after all.
No: I should never have another happy hour. No: on the faith of a Christian and the honor of a tailor, I accept the lot that has fallen on me. If my wife turns up, give her my love and say that my wish was that she should be happy with her next, poor fellow! Caesar: go to your box and see how a tailor can die. Make way for number twelve there.
Now I wonder why they all run away from us like that.
Don’t run away, sir: he can’t help springing if you run. Don’t be afraid of him.
Never be afraid of animals, your Worship: that’s the great secret. He’ll be as gentle as a lamb when he knows that you are his friend. Stand quite still; and smile; and let him smell you all over just to reassure him; for, you see, he’s afraid of you; and he must examine you thoroughly before he gives you his confidence. Come now, Tommy; and speak nicely to the Emperor, the great, good Emperor who has power to have all our heads cut off if we don’t behave very, VERY respectfully to him.
Oh bad wicked Tommy, to chase the Emperor like that! Let go the Emperor’s robe at once, sir: where’s your manners? Don’t pull it away from him, your worship. He’s only playing. Now I shall be really angry with you, Tommy, if you don’t let go. I’ll tell you what it is, sir: he thinks you and I are not friends.
We mustn’t let him lash himself into a rage. You must show him that you are my particular friend—if you will have the condescension. Look, Tommy: the nice Emperor is the dearest friend Andy Wandy has in the whole world: he loves him like a brother.
Oh don’t talk like that, sir. He understands every word you say: all animals do: they take it from the tone of your voice. I think he’s going to spring at your worship. If you wouldn’t mind saying something affectionate.
There! You see, your worship, a child might play with him now. See! Come and pet him.
Oh, sir, how few men would have the courage to do that—
Quite safe now, sir.
Not if they are in cages. They should not be kept in cages. They must all be let out.
I thank your worship. I thank you all, ladies and gentlemen. Come, Tommy. Whilst we stand together, no cage for you: no slavery for me.
