Good morrow, friends.
There is no forgiveness for Christianity.
Metellus: you see now the disadvantage of too much severity. These people have no hope; therefore they have nothing to restrain them from saying what they like to me. They are almost as impertinent as the gladiators. Which is the Greek sorcerer?
My Worship! Good! A new title. Well, what miracles can you perform?
Is that all?
Ah, well, my friend, we shall no doubt contrive a happy release for you. Which is Ferrovius?
They tell me you can fight.
That is still easier, is it not?
Metellus: I should like to have this man in the Pretorian Guard.
For that reason, perhaps, it might be well to have him. An Emperor can hardly have too many consciences. Listen, Ferrovius. . You and your friends shall not be outnumbered to-day in the arena. You shall have arms; and there will be no more than one gladiator to each Christian. If you come out of the arena alive, I will consider favorably any request of yours, and give you a place in the Pretorian Guard. Even if the request be that no questions be asked about your faith I shall perhaps not refuse it.
I cannot believe that the archangels—whoever they may be—would not prefer to be recruited from the Pretorian Guard. However, as you please. Come: let us see the show.
There is nothing in the rules against it.
It is a dusty one, my friend. Be on your guard next time.
These tricks are not wise, my friend. The audience likes to see a dead man in all his beauty and splendor. If you smudge his face and spoil his armor they will show their displeasure by not letting you kill him. And when your turn comes, they will remember it against you and turn their thumbs down.
You rogues: there is no end to your tricks. I’ll dismiss you all and have elephants to fight. They fight fairly. The Call Boy comes from the passage, followed by three attendants carrying respectively a bundle of swords, some helmets, and some breastplates and pieces of armor which they throw down in a heap.
The hour has come, Ferrovius. I shall go into my box and see you killed, since you scorn the Pretorian Guard.
The Christians will not fight; and your curs cannot get their blood up to attack them. It’s all that fellow with the blazing eyes. Send for the whip. If that will not move them, bring the hot irons. The man is like a mountain.
Where is he? Magnificent! He shall have a laurel crown.
What does it mean? It means that you are the greatest man in Rome. It means that you shall have a laurel crown of gold. Superb fighter, I could almost yield you my throne. It is a record for my reign: I shall live in history. Once, in Domitian’s time, a Gaul slew three men in the arena and gained his freedom. But when before has one naked man slain six armed men of the bravest and best? The persecution shall cease: if Christians can fight like this, I shall have none but Christians to fight for me. You are ordered to become Christians, you there: do you hear?
RETIARIUS. It is all one to us, Caesar. Had I been there with my net, the story would have been different.
The lions? Nonsense! Madam: I am proud to have the honor of making your acquaintance. Your brother is the glory of Rome.
Die! Certainly not. There has never been the slightest idea of harming them. Ladies and gentlemen: you are all free. Pray go into the front of the house and enjoy the spectacle to which your brother has so splendidly contributed. Captain: oblige me by conducting them to the seats reserved for my personal friends.
True, true: we must have somebody for the new lion.
No, no: you would tear him in pieces, my friend; and we cannot afford to throw away lions as if they were mere slaves. But we must have somebody. This is really extremely awkward.
The very thing: he will do very well.
THE CALL BOY. Number twelve. The Christian for the new lion.
There is something in that: there is certainly something in that—if only I could feel sure that your brother would not fret.
My friends, an incredible! an amazing thing! has happened. I can no longer doubt the truth of Christianity. This Christian sorcerer—
Sorcerer: I command you to put that lion to death instantly. It is guilty of high treason. Your conduct is most disgra— help!
I am NOT afraid of him. Keep between us.
Friends! You infernal scoundrel don’t let him go. Curse this brooch! I can’t get it loose.
You little brute, you damned filthy little dog of a Greek tailor: I’ll have you burnt alive for daring to touch the divine person of the Emperor.
My dearest Mr. Androcles, my sweetest friend, my long lost brother, come to my arms. Oh, what an abominable smell of garlic!
I must conquer these unkingly terrors. Mind you don’t go away from him, though.
Yes: it takes a bit of nerve. Let us invite the Court in and frighten them. Is he safe, do you think?
What ho, there! All who are within hearing, return without fear. Caesar has tamed the lion. Take those things away. I have subdued the beast.
How about the Pretorian Guard now?
Very wisely said. All really sensible men agree that the prudent course is to be neither bigoted in our attachment to the old nor rash and unpractical in keeping an open mind for the new, but to make the best of both dispensations.
And now, my friends, though I do not, as you see, fear this lion, yet the strain of his presence is considerable; for none of us can feel quite sure what he will do next.
I give this sorcerer to be a slave to the first man who lays hands on him. You see how magnanimous we Romans are, Androcles. We suffer you to go in peace.
