Yes, by the grace of God, I do, now.
I fear God more than man; at least I try to.
I have not always been faithful. The first man who struck me as you have just struck me was a stronger man than you: he hit me harder than I expected. I was tempted and fell; and it was then that I first tasted bitter shame. I never had a happy moment after that until I had knelt and asked his forgiveness by his bedside in the hospital. But now I have learnt to resist with a strength that is not my own. I am not ashamed now, nor angry.
Oh, do not harden your heart, young man. Come: try for yourself whether our way is not better than yours. I will now strike you on one cheek; and you will turn the other and learn how much better you will feel than if you gave way to the promptings of anger.
Give all thou hast to the poor. Come, friend: courage! I may hurt your body for a moment; but your soul will rejoice in the victory of the spirit over the flesh.
Yes; but I saved his soul. What matters a broken jaw?
The law will throw me to the lions tomorrow: what worse could it do were I to slay you? Pray for strength; and it shall be given to you.
On the contrary, it commands me to strike you. How can you turn the other cheek, if you are not first struck on the one cheek?
My son: have I softened your heart? Has the good seed fallen in a fruitful place? Are your feet turning towards a better path?
Join us. Come to the lions. Come to suffering and death.
These tears will water your soul and make it bring forth good fruit, my son. God has greatly blessed my efforts at conversion. Shall I tell you a miracle—yes, a miracle—wrought by me in Cappadocia? A young man—just such a one as you, with golden hair like yours—scoffed at and struck me as you scoffed at and struck me. I sat up all night with that youth wrestling for his soul; and in the morning not only was he a Christian, but his hair was as white as snow. There, there: take him away. The spirit has overwrought him, poor lad. Carry him gently to his house; and leave the rest to heaven.
You are his friend, young man. You will see that he is taken safely home.
The blessing of heaven upon you and him.
Yes: there has been a blessing on my work in spite of my unworthiness and my backslidings—all through my wicked, devilish temper. This man—
How I wish I were weak like our brother here! for then I should perhaps be meek and gentle like him. And yet there seems to be a special providence that makes my trials less than his. I hear tales of the crowd scoffing and casting stones and reviling the brethren; but when I come, all this stops: my influence calms the passions of the mob: they listen to me in silence; and infidels are often converted by a straight heart-to-heart talk with me. Every day I feel happier, more confident. Every day lightens the load of the great terror.
What!
Splendid to betray my master, like Peter! Splendid to act like any common blackguard in the day of my proving! Woman: you are no Christian.
Yes: that is so, if we are faithful to the end.
What’s this, brother? Anger! Violence! Raising your hand to a brother Christian!
Pray, man, pray.
What’s that? Not pray! Pray this instant, you dog, you rotten hound, you slimy snake, you beastly goat, or—
Yah!
Well?
I only meant that they have no souls.
That’s true. Yes: that is just. They will have their share in heaven.
What’s that you say?
Do animals go to heaven or not?
Do they or do they not?
I see the joke. Yes, yes: I shall be the roast boar. Ha! ha! .
Dog of an apostate. Iscariot!
Peace, peace: tempt him not. Get thee behind him, Satan.
Oh, my temper, my wicked temper! Forgive me, brother. My heart was full of wrath: I should have been thinking of your dear precious soul.
And I forgot it all: I thought of nothing but offering to fight you with one hand tied behind me.
Oh, don’t give way to pride and wrath, brother. I could do it so easily. I could—
I am he.
It is easy to fight. I can die, Caesar.
Not to me, Caesar. Death comes hard to my flesh; and fighting comes very easily to my spirit O sinner that I am! .
I will not fight. I will die. Better stand with the archangels than with the Pretorian Guard.
I’ll die sword in hand to show people that I could fight if it were my Master’s will, and that I could kill the man who kills me if I chose.
No armor.
I said, No armor.
Say your prayers, brother; and have no fear of the princes of this world.
Heaven give me strength!
Man: there is no terror like the terror of that sound to me. When I hear a trumpet or a drum or the clash of steel or the hum of the catapult as the great stone flies, fire runs through my veins: I feel my blood surge up hot behind my eyes: I must charge: I must strike: I must conquer: Caesar himself will not be safe in his imperial seat if once that spirit gets loose in me. Oh, brothers, pray! exhort me! remind me that if I raise my sword my honor falls and my Master is crucified afresh.
It does not hurt a man to kill him.
Faith! Which faith? There are two faiths. There is our faith. And there is the warrior’s faith, the faith in fighting, the faith that sees God in the sword. How if that faith should overwhelm me?
That is what I fear. I know that I am a fighter. How can I feel sure that I am a Christian?
I cannot. It cleaves to my hand. I could as easily throw a woman I loved from my arms. Who spoke that blasphemy? Not I.
Ha!
Burn the incense! Never.
ONLY pride! What is nobler than pride? Oh, I’m steeped in sin. I’m proud of my pride.
Aye, aye: that is right. Not as a lamb is slain by the butcher; but as a butcher might let himself be slain by a by a silly ram whose head he could fetch off in one twist.
Liar!
Touch them, dogs; and we die here, and cheat the heathen of their spectacle. Brothers: the great moment has come. That passage is your hill to Calvary. Mount it bravely, but meekly; and remember! not a word of reproach, not a blow nor a struggle. Go. Farewell.
It is true. Do not envy me because I pass before you to glory.
Lost! lost forever! I have betrayed my Master. Cut off this right hand: it has offended. Ye have swords, my brethren: strike.
I know not; but there was blood behind my eyes; and there’s blood on my sword. What does that mean?
Throw me to him. Let the apostate perish.
It is strange that I, who fear no man, should fear a lion.
In my youth I worshipped Mars, the God of War. I turned from him to serve the Christian god; but today the Christian god forsook me; and Mars overcame me and took back his own. The Christian god is not yet. He will come when Mars and I are dust; but meanwhile I must serve the gods that are, not the God that will be. Until then I accept service in the Guard, Caesar.
