But I think the Captain meant us to laugh, Centurion. It was so funny.
What will they do to us, Captain?
Captain: is there no hope that this cruel persecution—
Captain: there will be nobody to appreciate your jokes when we are gone.
Captain: your jokes are too grim. Do not think it is easy for us to die. Our faith makes life far stronger and more wonderful in us than when we walked in darkness and had nothing to live for. Death is harder for us than for you: the martyr’s agony is as bitter as his triumph is glorious.
Then why kill me?
No; but my faith, like your sword, needs testing. Can you test your sword except by staking your life on it?
Captain: how CAN you?
Captain: is this man who is to join us the famous Ferrovius, who has made such wonderful conversions in the northern cities?
You need not fear him if he is a Christian, Captain.
How brave of you, Captain!
Yes, Captain: they love even their enemies.
Very easy, Captain, when their enemies are as handsome as you.
At you, Captain! Impossible.
But such a very handsome captain.
They cannot violate my soul. I alone can do that by sacrificing to false gods.
No. I couldn’t. That is the strange thing, Captain, that a little pinch of incense should make all that difference. Religion is such a great thing that when I meet really religious people we are friends at once, no matter what name we give to the divine will that made us and moves us. Oh, do you think that I, a woman, would quarrel with you for sacrificing to a woman god like Diana, if Diana meant to you what Christ means to me? No: we should kneel side by side before her altar like two children. But when men who believe neither in my god nor in their own—men who do not know the meaning of the word religion—when these men drag me to the foot of an iron statue that has become the symbol of the terror and darkness through which they walk, of their cruelty and greed, of their hatred of God and their oppression of man—when they ask me to pledge my soul before the people that this hideous idol is God, and that all this wickedness and falsehood is divine truth, I cannot do it, not if they could put a thousand cruel deaths on me. I tell you, it is physically impossible. Listen, Captain: did you ever try to catch a mouse in your hand? Once there was a dear little mouse that used to come out and play on my table as I was reading. I wanted to take him in my hand and caress him; and sometimes he got among my books so that he could not escape me when I stretched out my hand. And I did stretch out my hand; but it always came back in spite of me. I was not afraid of him in my heart; but my hand refused: it is not in the nature of my hand to touch a mouse. Well, Captain, if I took a pinch of incense in my hand and stretched it out over the altar fire, my hand would come back. My body would be true to my faith even if you could corrupt my mind. And all the time I should believe more in Diana than my persecutors have ever believed in anything. Can you understand that?
Not even from death?
Then I must not come back either. A woman has to be braver than a soldier.
Prouder! You call our courage pride!
Pray God then my pride may never become a false pride. Thank you for trying to save me from death.
Something stirs, even in the iron breast of a Roman soldier!
Remember me for a fortnight, handsome Captain. I shall be watching you, perhaps.
What does that matter? Do you think I am only running away from the terrors of life into the comfort of heaven? If there were no future, or if the future were one of torment, I should have to go just the same. The hand of God is upon me.
What?
Don’t be foolish. Please don’t let your friend behave like a cad before the soldiers. How are they to respect and obey patricians if they see them behaving like street boys? Pull yourself together, man. Hold your head up. Keep the corners of your mouth firm; and treat me respectfully. What do you take me for?
Stuff! Go about your business.
So that is how you convert people, Ferrovius.
The great terror? What is that?
That would be splendid.
You know, Ferrovius, I am not always a Christian. I don’t think anybody is. There are moments when I forget all about it, and something comes out quite naturally, as it did then.
I’m not so sure.
Perhaps you men will all go into heaven bravely and in triumph, with your heads erect and golden trumpets sounding for you. But I am sure I shall only be allowed to squeeze myself in through a little crack in the gate after a great deal of begging. I am not good always: I have moments only.
Does that comfort you?
Come along, the rest of the dinner. I shall be the olives and anchovies.
Will they really kill one another?
Christians?
Does the Emperor ever interfere?
Brother, brother: you forget.
Poor Spintho! And it won’t even count as martyrdom!
Blessing, Caesar, and forgiveness!
I did not mean that, Caesar. I mean that we forgive you.
I expect the Emperor knows better. Anyhow, we forgive him.
THE CHRISTIANS. Amen!
Farewell.
Nothing but faith can save you.
You will find your real faith in the hour of trial.
I can’t help you, friend. I can’t tell you not to save your own life. Something wilful in me wants to see you fight your way into heaven.
That is only pride, Ferrovius.
They say we Christians are the proudest devils on earth—that only the weak are meek. Oh, I am worse than you. I ought to send you to death; and I am tempting you.
You forget: I must follow before you are cold.
. Androcles: burn the incense: you’ll be forgiven. Let my death atone for both. I feel as if I were killing you.
Are you there, handsome Captain? Have you come to see me die?
Is it part of your duty to laugh at us?
He is not a humorist: he was right. You ought to know that, Captain: you have been face to face with death.
Captain: all that seems nothing to me now. I’ll not say that death is a terrible thing; but I will say that it is so real a thing that when it comes close, all the imaginary things—all the stories, as you call them—fade into mere dreams beside that inexorable reality. I know now that I am not dying for stories or dreams. Did you hear of the dreadful thing that happened here while we were waiting?
Then you don’t understand what that meant?
It meant more than that, Captain. It meant that a man cannot die for a story and a dream. None of us believed the stories and the dreams more devoutly than poor Spintho; but he could not face the great reality. What he would have called my faith has been oozing away minute by minute whilst I’ve been sitting here, with death coming nearer and nearer, with reality becoming realler and realler, with stories and dreams fading away into nothing.
Yes: that is the wonderful thing. It is since all the stories and dreams have gone that I have now no doubt at all that I must die for something greater than dreams or stories.
I don’t know. If it were for anything small enough to know, it would be too small to die for. I think I’m going to die for God. Nothing else is real enough to die for.
When we know that, Captain, we shall be gods ourselves.
Handsome Captain: would you marry me if I hauled down the flag in the day of battle and burnt the incense? Sons take after their mothers, you know. Do you want your son to be a coward?
The hand of God is on us three, Captain.
Oh, that is unworthy. Can they not kill him without dishonoring him?
What has happened, do you think?
Androcles, Androcles: what’s the matter?
No, no. What have you done, Ferrovius?
But my friends here. Must they die?
I’ll go in his place, Caesar. Ask the Captain whether they do not like best to see a woman torn to pieces. He told me so yesterday.
No: I’ll strive for the coming of the God who is not yet.
Yes, handsome Captain: you may.
