I don’t believe a word of it. You are always threatening me with wild beasts to make me walk the very soul out of my body when I can hardly drag one foot before another. We haven’t seen a single lion yet.
You cruel beast, you don’t care how tired I am, or what becomes of me: always thinking of yourself. Self! self! self! always yourself!
A man ought to think of his wife sometimes.
Blame me! I should think not indeed. Is it my fault that I’m married to you?
That’s a nice thing to say to me. Aren’t you happy with me?
You ought to be ashamed of yourself.
You’re not: you glory in it.
In everything. In making me a slave, and making yourself a laughing-stock. Its not fair. You get me the name of being a shrew with your meek ways, always talking as if butter wouldn’t melt in your mouth. And just because I look a big strong woman, and because I’m good-hearted and a bit hasty, and because you’re always driving me to do things I’m sorry for afterwards, people say “Poor man: what a life his wife leads him!” Oh, if they only knew! And you think I don’t know. But I do, I do, I do.
Then why don’t you treat me properly and be a good husband to me?
What can you do! You can return to your duty, and come back to your home and your friends, and sacrifice to the gods as all respectable people do, instead of having us hunted out of house and home for being dirty, disreputable, blaspheming atheists.
Well, isn’t that the same thing, only ten times worse? Everybody knows that the Christians are the very lowest of the low.
Speak for yourself. Don’t you dare to compare me to common people. My father owned his own public-house; and sorrowful was the day for me when you first came drinking in our bar.
You’d much better have remained a drunkard. I can forgive a man being addicted to drink: its only natural; and I don’t deny I like a drop myself sometimes. What I can’t stand is your being addicted to Christianity. And what’s worse again, your being addicted to animals. How is any woman to keep her house clean when you bring in every stray cat and lost cur and lame duck in the whole countryside? You took the bread out of my mouth to feed them: you know you did: don’t attempt to deny it.
Yes, insult me, do. Oh! I won’t bear it another moment. You used to sit and talk to those dumb brute beasts for hours, when you hadn’t a word for me.
Well, if you’re fonder of animals than of your own wife, you can live with them here in the jungle. I’ve had enough of them and enough of you. I’m going back. I’m going home.
Serve you right! I wish the lions joy of you. Are you going to get out of my way and let me go home?
Then I’ll make my way through the forest; and when I’m eaten by the wild beasts you’ll know what a wife you’ve lost. Oh! Oh! Andy! Andy!
No, Andy: you’ll be killed. Come back.
The gods have sent him to punish us because you’re a Christian. Take me away, Andy. Save me.
Oh, don’t talk about eating. Oh! .
Oh, you coward, you haven’t danced with me for years; and now you go off dancing with a great brute beast that you haven’t known for ten minutes and that wants to eat your own wife. Coward! Coward! Coward!
