You know nothing about it. The people indeed! Do you suppose we would kill a man worth perhaps fifty talents to please the riffraff? I should like to catch any of my men at it.
You thought! Who cares what you think? You’ll be killed all right enough.
If the vestal virgins turn down their thumbs, that’s another matter. They’re ladies of rank.
Oh, yes: he turns his thumbs up fast enough if the vestal virgins want to have one of his pet fighting men killed.
See here: you want to know too much. There will be no pretending about the new lion: let that be enough for you. He’s hungry.
Here: don’t you be obstinate. Come with me and drop the pinch of incense on the altar. That’s all you need do to be let off.
What! Not to save your life?
That don’t matter. You can choose your own altar. Sacrifice to Jupiter: he likes animals: he turns himself into an animal when he goes off duty.
But I don’t ask you to do it to save yourself: I ask you to do it to oblige me personally.
Honor! The honor of a tailor?
How much will you remember of all that when you smell the beast’s breath and see his jaws opening to tear out your throat?
Well, if you’re determined to die, I can’t help you. But I wouldn’t be put off by a swine like that.
For two pins I’d take a turn in the arena myself to-day, and pay you out for daring to talk to me like that.
Yah!
What!
Nobody let him. He let himself.
Say nothing. Give your old lion some bitters and a morsel of fried fish to wake up his appetite.
Sh! Attention there! The Emperor.
CAESAR enters on the Christians’ side, conversing with Metellus, and followed by his suite.
Steady there. You Christians have got to fight. Here! arm yourselves.
Put on that armor.
Do what you’re told. Put on that armor.
And what am I to say when I am accused of sending a naked man in to fight my men in armor?
Tsha! You obstinate fool!
You are going too. Take a sword there; and put on any armor you can find to fit you.
Then get out of the way and hold your noise. Now then! Are you all ready there?
Aha! That frightens you, does it?
Yes, Sir: it’s these Christians hanging back.
March. Follow up there, you.
Shove them in, there.
Sickening work, this. Why can’t they all be thrown to the lions? It’s not a man’s job.
What’s up now?
Well, need you excite yourself about it? How many dead?
