Now then, you Christians, none of your larks. The captain’s coming. Mind you behave yourselves. No singing. Look respectful. Look serious, if you’re capable of it. See that big building over there? That’s the Coliseum. That’s where you’ll be thrown to the lions or set to fight the gladiators presently. Think of that; and it’ll help you to behave properly before the captain. Attention! Salute!
Silence!
Sir?
The men march better, Captain.
Silence! Silen-n-n-n-nce! Where’s your behavior? Is that the way to listen to an officer? That’s what we have to put up with from these Christians every day, sir. They’re always laughing and joking something scandalous. They’ve no religion: that’s how it is.
You’ll find out how funny it is when you’re thrown to the lions to-morrow. Beg pardon, Sir. Silennnnce!
Prisonerrrrrs! Tention! Silence!
Silence!
Silence! Hold your tongue, there. Persecution, indeed!
Silence, I tell you! Keep silence there. Did anyone ever hear the like of this?
Dismiss! But stay where you are.
Yes, Sir.
Cohort of the tenth with prisoners. Two file out with me to receive them.
Here are some pals for you. This little bit is Ferrovius that you talk so much about. Now remember that you’re a Christian, and that you’ve got to return good for evil. That’s the way to manage them, eh! This fine fellow is a sorcerer. A Greek tailor, he is. A real sorcerer, too: no mistake about it. The tenth marches with a leopard at the head of the column. He made a pet of the leopard; and now he’s crying at being parted from it. Ain’t you, old chap? Well, cheer up, we march with a Billy goat that’s killed two leopards and ate a turkey-cock. You can have him for a pet if you like. This dirty dog is a real Christian. He mobs the temples, he does; he goes smashing things mad drunk, he does; he steals the gold vessels, he does; he assaults the priestesses, he does pah! You’re the sort that makes duty a pleasure, you are.
Well, if you’re going to heaven, I don’t want to go there. I wouldn’t be seen with you.
Yes, sir. Lucky for you too, sir, if you want to take any liberties with him.
You asked for it, sir. It’s no business of ours. You’ve had two whacks at him. Better pay him a trifle and square it that way.
Take him home.
Tention! Form as before. Now then, prisoners, up with you and trot along spry.
Emperor! Where’s the Emperor? You ain’t the Emperor, are you?
What! Go in after you in your dust, with half the town at the heels of you and your lion! Not likely. We go first.
You tell me, do you? Well, I’ll tell you something. If the lion is menagerie service, the lion’s dinner is menagerie service too. This is the lion’s dinner. So back with you to your bullocks double quick; and learn your place. March. Now then, you Christians, step out there.
Silence! Have some sense of your situation. Is this the way for martyrs to behave? I know what you’ll be at that dinner. You’ll be the emetic.
Fitter than you are to live, you swine.
